Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.  It is a language that provides/specifies a set of instructions. These instructions can be used to produce various
    kinds of output or program or software. Programming languages generally consist of instructions for a computer and used
    to create programs that implement specific algorithms.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.  JDK is java development kit and composed of  compiler, JRE,JVM, debugger, Applet viewer etc.
  Java Compiler: The Java compiler (javac) is used to compile Java source code files into executable Java bytecode classes.
  In Java, source code files have the extension .java. The Java compiler takes files with .java extension and generates
  executable class files with the .class extension (bytecode).
  JRE: It is used to provide runtime environment.It is the implementation of JVM, physically exists and contains set of
  libraries  and other files that JVM uses at runtime.
  JVM: JVM is a virtual machine that resides inside the actual machine.The bytecode produced by compiler is loaded in
  the JVM by class loader and then verifies by the bytecode verifier and executed by the execution engine.

A. IDE stands for Integrated Development Environment. It is a software application that allows users write and debug Java
    programs more easily by providing features like syntax highlighting and code completion.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.  IDEs that support java are: Eclipse, IntelliJ, NeatBeans, BlueJ, JDeveloper etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Java is high level language. Machine cannot read this high level language thus it needs to converted into machine language.
 In java lifecycle java code is typed in editor which is saved as .java file that is compiled by javac compiler and translate
 it into machine code or .class file that is also called bytecode. Then this bytecode is used by JVM and process through execution
 engine and produce the output. JVM makes java platform independent.

what is class?
A. It is a template/blueprint of an object.

What is object?
A. Object is an instance of a class. It has state and behaviors.

What is the entry point of an application?
A.  Entry point finds a resource that is an access point to that application. Application entry points are used to control users'
    access to different versions of an application that is deployed on a platform. Main method is the entry point for java application.

Why main is static?
A. Main method is the entry point for program to be executed. Main () is called by the JVM before any objects are created. Main should be static
    because we don't need to make object and it can be directly invoked through the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.  Object class is the superclass of all classes.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path refers to the system while classpath refers to the Developing Envornment.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods whereas interface can have only abstract methods.
   Abstract class doesn't support multiple inheritance whereas interface supports multiple inheritance.
   The abstract keyword is used to declare abstract class whereas interface keyword is used to declare interface.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.  No we can't make an object from Interface and abstract class. In interface or abstract class we have abstract methods,
    abstract means incomplete so we cannot make of object of incomplete things. There would be no actual implementation of
    the method to invoke if we instantiate an abstract class or interface.

what is Access Specifier?
A.  An access specifier restricts the access of a class, constructor, data member and method in another class.
    Java access specifier are public, protected, private and default.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP is Object Oriented Programming. OOP features are: Abstraction, inheritance,Encapsulation and polymorphism.
    Abstraction: It is implementation hiding.
    Encapsulation: it is data hiding.
    Inheritance: It is a process where one class can access the properties of other class. Single inheritance,
    multilevel and hierarchical are types of inheritance.
    Polymorphism: It is the ability of an object to take on many forms. Method overloading and method overriding
    are the type of polymorphism.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.  A package is a like a folder that can have or organizes related classes and interfaces. Java.lang package is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.  API is application programming Interface. Java API.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.  No. Multiple inheritance is not supported through class in java. if multiple inheritance is supported by java there
    will occur complexity (it will hard to decide which class method is to implement) in implementing the method present in classes.
    But multiple inheritance is supported  in java through interface.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.  It is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their argument(signature)
    lists are different. It happens at compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A.  Exceptions in java are the events that disturps the normal flow of the java program that terminates the program abnormally.
    Exceptions in java are handled using try...catch block in the program.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.  Static keyword can be used with class, variable, method and block. Static members belong to the class instead of a
    specific instance. We can call static variable or method without creating an object of that class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.  Final is a keyword used to apply restrictions on class,variables and methods. If we declare variable as final we can't
    modify the value,it means it's a constant. Method cannot be overriden by subclass if we use final with method in a parent class.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A.  Final is a keyword used to apply restrictions on class, variables and methods. Finally is a block used to place important code
    that always executed. Finalize is a method that can be used to perform any cleanup processing.

What is a constructor ?
A.  It is a block of code that initializes object. It doesn't have return type. Constructor name should be same as class name.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.  Yes, we can have multiple constructors in a java class.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.  Java compiler will invoke Default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. "THIS" keyword is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. The super keyword refers to the objects of immediate parent class.

What is JVM stand for ?
A.  JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A.  No JVM is not platform independent, We need platform specific JVM for specific operating system.

What version of java are you using?
A.  Version 1.8 of java but version 10 is already released.

What is JAR stand for ?
A.  It stands for java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.  JDK composed of JRE, JVM, compiler and other set of libraries and files whereas JVM is a virtual machine to load, verify
    and execute the bytecode.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.  JRE composed of JVM, set of libraries and files. It is the implementation of JVM whereas JVM is a virtual machine that performs load, verify and execute
    the bytecode.

What is compile time and run time?
A.  The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program. This compilation process
    is referred to as compile time.(think of a compiler as a translator) A compiled program can be opened and run by a user.
    When an application is running, it is called runtime

What is heap?
A.  Heap is a part of JVM memory where objects are allocated. JVM creates a Class object for each .class file.

How java manage it's memory?
A.  Java has Automatic garbage collector. When any variable, objects are unused then the automatic garbage collector removes them
    from the memory and creates space.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.  String is immutable so can't change value. StringBuilder and StringBuffer are mutable and hence changes their value.
    StringBuffer is synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not synchronized.

What is Singleton class?
A.  It is a class that can have only one object at a time. If we try to instantiate the singleton class,
    the new variable also points to the first instance created.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.  Serialization is converting an object to stream of bytes. De-serialization is rebuilding the object from stream of bytes.
    when to use transient variable in java?

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.  In while loop, condition is evaluated first and if it returns true then the statements inside while loop execute.
    When condition returns false, the control comes out of loop and jumps to the next statement after while loop.
    In while loop, condition is evaluated before the execution of loop’s body but in do-while loop condition is evaluated
    after the execution of loop’s body. In do-while loop code is executed at least one time no matter what the condition is.

What is Enum?
A.  It is a special king of java class that is used to define collections of constants. examples are: Weeks, Months, years etc.

What is Iterator?
A.  Iterator is an interface in java.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.  Will take same memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.  Java usage the concept of string literals. if we have multiple reference variables to refer an object and if one variable changes
    the value of a object. Then all the reference variable will be affected. Due to this reason String is immutable in java.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.  It is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object. It can be done
    using this() keyword for constructors in same class. It can be done by using super() keyword to call constructor from
    the parent class to child class.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.  The Serial collector uses a single thread to perform all garbage collection work. As such it works best on single
    processor machines, or on applications with small data sets. The Parallel collector performs minor collections in parallel.
    It is supposed to maximize the throughput of the application.

What is JIT stands for?
A. JIT stands for Just-in-Time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.  When JVM starts up, it creates a heap space which is known as runtime data area. In heap space all the objects are stored.
    Heap space is limited and required to manage this area efficiently by removing the objects that are no longer in use.
    The process of removing unused objects from heap memory is known as Garbage collection.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A.  Yes. Java has automatic garbage collection system.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.  Stack is used for static memory allocation and Heap is used for dynamic memory allocation in the computer's RAM.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.  Reflection allows to view class,method,field information that is processing as the program runs. It also allows to
    create instances of classes on the runtime.

what is multithreading in java?
A.  It is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.  Synchronization is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource. It is used to
    prevent thread interference and to prevent consistency problem.

What is Framework?
A.  A framework is collection of classes and interfaces that simplifies the development process.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A.  JUnit, testNG are the testing Frameworks in java.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A.  TestNG has more added features than JUnit. TestNG has advantage over JUnit in; easier understanding of annotations,
    easier grouping of test cases, enables parallel testing.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A.  All the added JARs, testng jar, mysql-connector-java, mongo-java-driver.

what is dependency injection in java?
 It is the inversion of control.  A class should not configure its dependencies statically but should be
 configured from the outside according to this concept.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.  Static binding happens at compile-time while dynamic binding happens at runtime. Overloading is an example of static binding
whereas overriding is an example of dynamic binding.









